This directory contains command scripts used for building Yale Haskell
from the source distribution under Lispworks from Harlequin.  We have
been using version 3.1.1 on a Sparc.

Developers need to source haskell-development instead of haskell-setup
in the .cshrc file.

Important: Make sure you load the stuff in the patches directory
before trying to build the system (the command files do this for you).
If you're building on some platform other than a sparc, you'll have to
get equivalent patches from Harlequin before proceeding.

To rebuild the system:

* You need to define environment variables Y2 and LISPWORKS to point to the
  appropriate pathnames.  See the haskell-development script for details.

* Make sure that the environment variable PRELUDEBIN (in the 
  haskell-setup script) points to $PRELUDE/lispworks.

* Execute the "compile" script.  This will recompile all of the Lisp 
  source files that make up the Yale Haskell system.  Compiled files are
  put in the "lispworks" subdirectory of each source directory.

* Execute the "build-prelude" script to compile the standard prelude.  
  Note that this process tends to use up a huge amount of memory!

* Execute the "savesys" script to build a new executable.

* The new executable is initially called "bin/new-lispworks-haskell".  Try
  it out.  If it works, you should rename it to "bin/lispworks-haskell".
  Make sure that HASKELLPROG (in the haskell-setup script) is correct.

* If you want to build an executable with the X support, you'll also
  need to run the "build-xlib" and "savesys-xlib" scripts.  You may
  need to edit these scripts to load the CLX library explicitly if
  you are using a Lisp executable that doesn't have CLX pre-loaded.

When you compile things with the Lispworks compiler, you'll see a
bunch of messages complaining about forward references to things that
haven't yet been defined.  We haven't been able to figure out how to
suppress these messages, so unless something else goes wrong you should
just ignore them.
